128 | P a g e  
 
International Journal of Innovative Research in Engineering 
Volume 3, Issue 6 (November-December 2022), PP: 128-130. 
www.theijire.com                                      ISSN No: 2582-8746 
 
Travel and Tourism Website 
 
 
 
 
  
Swapnil Chitransh1, Satyansh Upadhyay2, Suryansh Chaubey3, Prakhar Goyal4 
1,2,3,4Undergraduate Students, Information Technology Department, Institute of Technology and Management GIDA  Gorakhpur, 
Uttar Pradesh, India. 
 
How to cite this paper: 
Swapnil Chitransh1, Satyansh Chaubey2, 
Suryansh Chaubey3, Prakhar Goyal4, “Travel and 
Tourism Website”, IJIRE-V3I06-128-130. 
 
 
Copyright © 2022  by author(s) and  5th Dimension  
Research Publication . 
This work is licensed under the Creative 
Commons Attribution International License (CC 
BY 4.0). 
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/  
 
Abstract: This project “Travel and Tourism Website” is used to automate all process of  the travel 
and tourism, which deals with creation, booking and confirmation and user  details. The project is 
designed HTML-JavaScript as front end and Microsoft SQL Server  as backend which works in any 
browsers. The coding language used HTML, CSS, Java Script. Travel and tourism management 
system is used to book a tour from anywhere in the world by a single dynamic website which will help 
the user to know all about the places and tour details in a single website. The admin can add packages 
to the website from a certain travel agents and hotels by create a tour page. Then the users can sign 
in and book each project, they can be confirmed by the admin in them manage booking page. The user 
can see the confirmation in my booking page. It is an easiest platform for all travelers which can be 
easily booked and know the all details. 
Key Word: Travel and tourism management, travel packages, tourism, package booking. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 Travel and tourism management system is used to book a tour from anywhere in the world by a single dynamic website 
which will help the user to know all about the places and tour  details in a single website. The admin can add packages to  the 
website from a certain travel agents and hotels by create a tour page. Then the users can sign in and book each project, they can 
be confirmed by the admin in them manage booking page. The user can see the confirmation in my booking page. It is an easiest 
platform for all travelers which can be easily booked and know the all details. Tour Management system is a dynamic website for 
tourism business. It is dynamic and responsive web design. It is also called travel technology solution for agencies & tour operation. 
Nearly Everyone goes on a vacation for this ‘a Tourism management system’ would play a vital role in planning the perfect trip. 
The tourism management system allows the user of the system access all the details  such as location, events, etc. The main 
purpose is to help tourism companies to manage customer and hotels etc. The system can also be used for both professional and 
business trips. 
 In the existing system, each task is carried out manually and processing is also a tedious job. In previous system travelers 
were maintaining time table details manually in pen and paper, which was time taking and costly. The travelers are not  able to 
achieve its need in time and also the results may not accurate. Because of the manual maintenance there are number of difficulties 
and drawbacks exist in the system. Some of them are 
 
 Increased transaction leads to increased source document and hence maintenance becomes difficult. 
 If any admin, user entry is wrongly made then the maintenance becomes very difficult. 
 
 The proposed system is designed to be more efficient than the manual system. It invokes all base tasks that are now carried 
out manually, such as the forms transactions and reports which is added advantage. The proposed System is completely computer-
based application. Thousands of records can search and displayed without taking any significant time 
 
 Gives accurate information 
 Simplifies the manual work 
 It minimizes the documentation related work 
 Provides up to date information 
 Friendly Environment by providing warning messages. 
 travelers’ details can be provided 
 booking confirmation notification 
 
II.LITERATURE REVIEW 
 The tourism industry has always been considered as an industry that brings many benefits and profits to India. Now, 
the tourism industry not only attracts domestic tourists but also brings a large number of tourists from abroad. According to  
statistics from tourism.gov.in newspaper. "Total revenue from tourists reached 755 trillion INR (equivalent to 32.8 billion  

Travel and Tourism Website 
129 | P a g e  
 
USD)", "Direct contribution of tourism: 9.2% of GDP. 
 However, with the Covid 19 epidemic, the worldwide tourism industry has been "frozen" and India's tourism industry 
has also been significantly affected. 
 According to the UNWTO report, the number of international tourists globally in 2020 will decrease by 1.1 billion. 
Total global tourism revenue lost $1.1 trillion; about 100-120 million orders in the industry lost their jobs. 
In this literature review, the most information available on India's tourism industry, from  which businesses need to have new 
strategies, is more suitable to the actual situation. This research article will help Vacation Travel better understand the needs and 
factors affecting customers when booking tours. 
 Since then, this research is considered necessary before Vacation comes up with a new strategy: Creating an e-
commerce site. 
 Before the technology 4.0, India also gradually used technology in life more than before. According to statistics of 
Okla., a company that owns the world famous Speed Test measuring tool, said that broadband internet in India reached 47.6 6 
Mbps in April 2020. 
 From the data that INETWORK shares, the number of people using social media in India has increased quite quickly 
with a specific increase of 57 million people (i.e. an increase of more than +9.6%). These statistics are from April 2019 to January 
2020. 
 Also according to INETWORK, in India we have more than 845.8 million mobile data network connections in India 
as of January 2020. That means each person can use multiple mobile devices. different people to alternately do some things such 
as: entertainment, work... The battery power on mobile devices is limited, while the total amount of time they use the internet is too 
much during the day. 
 Through those actual figures, we once again see that using the internet is already a part of India’s people's lives. 
Therefore, based on the above data, we can prove that: It is perfectly reasonable for us to develop a new foundation for our 
business strategy and can bring high profits. 
 This is also considered a bridge, which helps businesses connect with customers more easily in the face of the stressful 
pandemic situation and travel difficulties. 
 The Covid-19 pandemic suddenly appeared and spread around the world, affecting not only the tourism industry but 
also the psychology of tourists. In India, along with the gradually recovering tourism, the tourism demand of tourists has also  
been changing. 
 In the middle of May, after the end of social distancing in India, the Ministry of Tourism and Indian Express electronic 
newspaper conducted a survey with nearly 2,000 people about post-Covid domestic tourists. -19. 
 With this survey result, it can be one of the useful suggestions for tourism units to recover the smokeless industry after 
Covid-19. The survey showed that tourism demand in India be gan to recover from mid-July - when social distancing was eased 
until now. More than 53% of people said they are ready to travel this summer. 
 Covid-19 has impacted online shopping habits. This trend is reflected in the fact that tourists choose to book tours 
themselves directly (62%) and book hotels/tours via online platforms (44%). 
 According to the Tourism Advisory Council, through this survey, it can be seen that the behavior of domestic tourists 
in India after Covid-19 has changed a lot compared to before Covid-19. We need to think about restructuring tourism businesses, 
tourism products, promoting destinations to meet the needs and new trends of the domestic tourism market after Covid-19. 
 The need to focus on e-commerce 
 Ministry of Tourism conducted a survey in September with around 1,000 people to see the psychology and behavior of 
tourists. According to the survey results, 58.2% of the respondents admitted that they were afraid to go to tourist  destinations 
that were affected by the epidem ic. Besides, the trend of buying travel insurance is also increasing. This  comes from the risks 
when traveling during the epidemic time has not been completely controlled. 
 This survey also reaffirms that small group and short -term tourism is a priority af ter the epidemic. In addition, 
customers also prioritize disease -free destinations and safe destinations. The ratio of these two priorities is 31.2% and 26%  
respectively. Guests' top priority is financial ability (32.7%). 
 Based on the survey, this unit offers a number of solutions for travel businesses. First, they have to transform their  
marketing, sales consulting and customer care forms through online platforms. With 87% of guests wanting to receive incentives 
directly on the tour price, the survey unit suggested that travel businesses and airlines connect to create cheaper travel combos. 
In addition, the tourism industry needs to work with the insurance industry to create new travel packages.  When customers buy 
tours, travel agencies need to encourage them to book more Insurance to create peace of mind. 
 Those are specific examples and data that will help tourism management agencies, localities and tourism businesses 
better understand the thoughts of tourists, thereby building suitable tourism products, and at the same time conduct more effective 
domestic tourism stimulus campaigns during the covid-19 pandemic. 
 Through the data reported above, we can see that developing an e-commerce platform in this period will be a good 
strategy. 
 However, in order to implement this strategy, firstly through a study on the factors that decide to buy tours of customers, 
it will help Vacation Travel  get more specific data, as well as understand the important points that The above data will be 
evaluated by customers who have purchased tours at Vacation Travel. 
 
 
Admin authentication 
Travel and Tourism Website 
130 | P a g e  
 
 This module is mainly based on admin. System will check the admin user name and password for authentication. After 
the verification for authorization the admin can be able to precede the process. All works are done under his control. 
User Registration 
 This module covers the details about the registration of users which they can be register by itself by adding data like 
name, password, email id and further details. After registration they can be sign in by their username and password. 
 
Package Creation 
 The admin can create packages by creating package page which the type, price, details, place details all the travel tour  
package details can be added here. Which it will be showed in user homepage. 
Package booking 
 In this module maintain the booking of travel packages by the user by selecting a various package with date and certain 
comments. 
Booking confirmation/manage 
 Booking confirmation is the process of confirming the booked packages by the admin that is booked by the user with 
date and comment. Also, admin can manage the booking by cancelling. 
 
Issue ticket 
Tickets can be issued for the user in the issue ticket page in the homepage of user the certain booked packages only can be issued. 
 
 
 
III.CONCLUSION 
 This web application was  successfully created and stored all the travel admin tourism packages booking, creation 
managing and tour details into the database using this application. The application was tested very well and the errors were 
properly debugged. Testing also concluded that the performance of the system is satisfactory. All the necessary output is 
generated. This system thus provides an easy way to automate all the functionalities of consumption. If this application is 
implemented in few consumptions, it will be helpful. Further enhancements can be made to the project, so that the website 
functions in a very attractive and useful manner than the present one. It is concluded that the application works well and satisfy 
the needs. The application is tested very well and errors are properly debugged.  It also acts as thesharing of files to the valuable  
resources. 
 
Reference 
[1]. Azevedo, D. (2009). Proposal of Home Website Evaluation model in Tourism. 
[2].   Blain, C. (2005). Destination Branding and Practices from Destination Management Organizations. Travel Research, 43,328 -338. 
[3]. Brey, E., So, S., Kim, D., and Morrison, A. (2007). Web-based permission marketing: segmentation for the lodging industry. Tourism 
Management, 28(6)1408–1416. 
[4]. 4. Cavia, J. F., Rovira, C., Luque, P. D., and Cavaller, V. (2014). Web Quality Index WQI) for official tourist destination websites. 
Proposal for an assessment system. Tourism Management Perspectives , 9, 5–13. 
 

